our main story tonight is the IRS now I
know that sounds unappealing but I
promise you if you stay to the end of
this there'll be a very sexy reward now
this Wednesday is April the 15th the day
every year when Wesley Snipes pokes his
little head out of his burrow and if he
sees his own tax return quickly dives
back in and like clockwork tax season
brings with it an annual gnashing of
teeth to dreaded words this time of year
tax time it is tax day to day maybe
you're holding your nose while finishing
up your taxes tax season officially
begins a good tax season
tax season it's the most wonderful time
of the year happy tax day everybody at
sarcasm of course yes tax season is a
lot like bathing suit season you
probably dread it unless you're already
the kind of person who spent a lot of
time in the Cayman Islands people hate
taxes and they hate the IRS so much so
they can't help but express that
whatever the circumstances and this
should make you a real crowd favorite
John works for the IRS make it easy for
he works in collection for the IRS
what are you doing Regis painting the
crowd boo him boo him now let's lock the
doors and turn off the cameras and burn
him let's burn the money which and to be
honest the IRS have not been good
recently at winning people over
particularly this current tax season and
brace yourself for rough tax season yes
the IRS warning this year will be worse
than most for you if you need to visit
an IRS office a word of warning prepare
to wait a little after 8:00 the line
already snaked across the sidewalk
reaching out into the parking lot okay
I'm here Monday and I was here from 7:00
to 4:00 any silly two people working
inside two employees that is not good
because if you're in that line you need
help no one waits that long for
something they could fix themselves it's
the same way that you know the people in
line at the emergency room at 2:00 a.m.
definitely have something stuck inside
their butt
you corndog you Boba Fett's action
figure I've been there and look if
you're thinking well this doesn't affect
me I'll just call the IRS on the phone
well good luck with that nationwide only
four and ten callers to the agency's
toll-free line are getting through to a
real person the number of courtesy
disconnects when an overloaded system
hangs up on the customer has now reached
five million so far this year that's
right if the IRS system gets overloaded
it will give you a courtesy disconnect
which means hanging up on you you can't
just put a nice word in front of an
unpleasant one and change the meaning
it's like the phrase politely decline or
Care Bears
they're still bears they'll rip you the
Capas their best it's in their blood
it's
is it any wonder that everyone hates the
IRS dealing with them is obligatory it
often functions badly and it combines
two of the things that we hate the most
in life someone taking our money and
math and and yet tonight I'm going to
attempt the impossible I'm going to try
and make you feel a small amount of
sympathy for the IRS because for a start
it cannot be a pleasant place to work
just listen to what extra little gift
they get alongside people's tax returns
well we've had everything come in from
brown sugar to dust out of the vacuum
cleaner to people spreading mustard home
check not that check is processed but we
just wipe the mustard off and send it to
the pen
this is how matter-of-fact is this must
happen all the time yeah some people put
mustard on the check some people file
their returns inside of a dead fish one
man covered his checking Vaseline and
pubic hair we just wipe it off and send
it to the bank that's what we do here
and it's not just furious mustard
enthusiasts taking out on the IRS even
state governors have publicly demonized
them
Governor LePage didn't want to talk
about the outrage he sparked when he
compared the IRS to the Gestapo with the
Nazi secret police but when we pushed
him for a comment here's what he said it
was never intended but you compared them
to the Gestapo of course they were
offended if you compare someone to the
Gestapo and they don't get offended
that's a big red flag but but the public
perception of IRS employees as Gestapo
like villains doesn't quite match up
when you see what they're actually like
because on the IRS YouTube channel there
are videos where employees talk about
their jobs and they don't seem evil so
much as unbelievably boring the data
transcriber takes the physical return
and inputs it into the computer system
for further processing you know you've
got to know about the budgetary
accounting proprietary counting you're
out there meeting taxpayers at their
residences at their places of business
you're conducting interviews on tax
payers you're investigating their assets
you're out there interviewing third
parties looking for assets that possibly
the taxpayer didn't disclose to you
those people are Nazis Nazis are
inherently interested those people are
the physical equivalent of ambien
and look there is a weird kind of
heroism to doing jobs that have that
boring because not only could I not do
their job I can barely even listen to
them talking about it so why exactly do
we hate the IRS so much because it's
worth remembering if you are angry about
the amount of tax you pay
that's nothing to do with them that's
determined by a vote in Congress
much like declarations of war and how
often Orrin Hatch is allowed to orgasm
not yet Orrin not yet now there you go
there you go it's complicated well
that's Congress's fault too and you know
who agrees with you the people who work
for the IRS because even they have
trouble keeping up we looked at how many
changes in the tax law had occurred in
last year alone it was something like
579 changes 579 changes which is in the
tax law in one year that that's more
than a change every day yes how do you
keep up i I don't and I don't know how
individuals or businesses keep up 579
changes in one year the only document
that should change that often is the
Wikipedia page for Bill Cosby 32
achieves it 34 holy I don't know
how anyone keeps up this really should
be going above Fat Albert at this point
the fact is blaming the IRS because you
hate paying your taxes it's a bit like
slapping your checkout clerk because the
price of eggs has gone up it's not her
fault she's just trying to help you get
out of the store that scenario
incidentally is also my pitch for the
slap season too that's that apropos
but let's recap the IRS does a difficult
thankless almost dangerously boring job
and that job has actually been getting
even more difficult because of this the
IRS budget has been slashed in recent
years since the GOP won control of the
chamber back in 2010 the agency's
funding has shrunk by nearly 20% you
can't lose nearly 20% of what you are
and be as effective
it's like pretending Zayn leaving one
direction doesn't tear the heart out of
that bat he was 20% of the band but he
was 99 percent of the soul it's over
everyone Jordan has left the Bulls I
don't like it any more than you but the
DNA of the band is broken and I can't
believe I'm the one in this room that
cares the most about this shame on you
the point is Congress has slashed the
IRS his budget but largely out of anger
which was not entirely unjustified you
might remember a few years ago there
were scandals over overspending on
conferences and training videos like
this horrific parody of Star Trek it
would seem captain the no-tax yawns lack
of skilled tax leaders has resulted in a
widespread case of confusion uninformed
taxpayers high non-compliance no
strategic vision I'm afraid without a
wealth of skilled leaders anarchy is
spreading across the planet like a virus
wow that's depressing I have seen Star
Trek porn parodies less depressing than
that
look that of course that of course was
nothing next to the IRS is big scandal
report coming out this week shows IRS
officials were targeting Tea Party and
other conservative groups when those
groups applied for tax-exempt status yes
the Tea Party targeting scandal where
the IRS inundated many conservative
groups with questions sometimes delaying
their applications for years and look
that scandal was not nothing because
while they did target liberal groups as
well those groups were scrutinized to a
much lesser extent and made up only 29
of the 298 groups targeted which is
ridiculous because if you want to find
liberal groups to harass it's easy just
Google what was that thing alec baldwin
was going on about the investigation
into all this is ongoing and while
current evidence strongly suggests that
this was more of a giant bureaucratic
up than something more nefarious
for the sake of argument let's assume
the absolute worst that this was
deliberate political targeting the best
thing to do then would be to get rid of
the people who are in charge and make
some changes to how the agency reviews
political groups both of which have
happened the worst thing to do is what
we've done and that's angrily slashed
their budgets so they can't operate
properly because remember those long
lines from earlier you can thank the
cuts for those between 2010 and 2014 the
IRS lost over 13,000 employees the
portion of our workforce over 50 years
of age has been growing rapidly during
the last several years we have only 650
employees out of 87,000 who are 25 or
younger it's true most IRS employees are
over 50 and less than 1% are under 25
and that does not bode well for the IRS
because a government agency should not
have the same age ratio as an Eric
Clapton concert and the IRS is staff is
not the only thing that is aging at a
dangerous rate some think the IRS has
fallen short in their efforts to keep up
with modern day technology
almost half of all tax data exists on
the magnetic tape and cartridge system
developed in the 1960s but is terrifying
we should at least be using technology
invented after an era when it was okay
to call a female co-worker toots but we
shouldn't just fund the IRS because we
want our information stored on something
a little more sophisticated than a
duck hunt cartridge we should
fund them because the IRS is one of the
safest investments for public money
available according to the Treasury
Department every dollar spent on tax
enforcement yields back
six-six the IRS sex tuples your money
they should make that their motto were
it not for the fact that sex tuples is
already the name of sandal spin-off most
likely to get shuttered by the Health
Department welcome to sex tuples where
all you need to bring is an open mind
and lots of bleach lots of bleach lots
that's on you the problem is our whole
tax system is built upon trust and if
people lose faith in the IRS the whole
system by which we fund everything is in
trouble we collect three trillion
dollars a year in a voluntary compliance
system if the compliance rate goes down
by one percent either because people
think the chances of getting caught are
down or because they can't find out the
right information or they just get
aggravated with us a 1% decline in the
compliance rate costs the government 30
billion dollars annually exactly the IRS
compliance right is entirely based on
confidence
much like loyal love at sex appeal or
channing tatum's acting ability you lose
that confidence everything collapses and
look I'm not saying the IRS is a likable
organization but not everything that's
important is likable think of our
government as a body the IRS is the anus
it's it's nobody's favorite part but you
need that thing working properly or
everything goes to real quick
and we don't need to love the IRS or
even like them but after decades of us
calling them Nazis and sending them
mustard I think they may deserve at
least a few minutes of at least grudging
acknowledgment of the unpleasant but
necessary function they serve
unfortunately expression of sincere
emotion is not my forte I'm British
luckily I have some serious help tonight
so to serenade the IRS with if not a
love song a song of reluctant support
for their appropriate funding please
welcome Grammy award-winning singer and
songwriter mr. Michael Bolton
[Applause]
Packard Harley believe it when I heard
the news today Congress cut your budget
right into
I guess you make people angry with the
things you do and say cuz you make us
give our money straight to you
[Music]
but we need your real bad though it's
clear nobody really likes you
yo-dee-hey meanness of our country don't
you know
[Music]
tell me supposed to live without you
we couldn't
[Music]
how are we supposed to live without you
and though saying this just cuts me like
nine
we need the eye
to stay alive
[Music]
yes you have cups like that stupid Star
Trek vein tell me who was it
oh really part of
Michael you'll be pleased to know the
people responsible are all gone so well
I'm sorry to hear that
what they got staffing problems to that
that's actually true here recruitment
numbers are at best a little flat and
nuanced points Michael balsam
just how we get along with
don't you never miss your anus
[Music]
we cut our budgets
to
we pay for everything we need
like collar
oh look
[Music]
supposed to
and
he's supposed to carry on
[Music]
when the only practical way to collect
revenue under our current governmental
system pending a significant overhaul of
the tax code which seems unlikely at
best is go
[Music]
Boulton
you